README.md, before:

# Build a Docker containerized ASP.NET Core web application using Managed Identity, Key Vault, and Cosmos DB that is designed to be deployed to Azure App Service or Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)
![Docker Image Build](https://github.com/retaildevcrews/helium-csharp/workflows/Docker%20Image%20Build/badge.svg)


This is an ASP.NET Core Web API reference application designed to "fork and code" with the following features:

- Securely build, deploy and run an Azure App Service (Web App for Containers) application
- Securely build, deploy and run an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) application
- Use Managed Identity to securely access resources
- Securely store secrets in Key Vault
- Securely build and deploy the Docker container from Azure Container Registry (ACR)
- Connect to and query Cosmos DB
- Automatically send telemetry and logs to Azure Monitor
- Instructions for setting up Key Vault, ACR, Azure Monitor and Cosmos DB are in the Helium [readme](https://github.com/retaildevcrews/helium)

## Prerequisites

- Docker CLI ([download](https://docs.docker.com/install/))
- .NET Core SDK 3.1 ([download](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download))
- Azure CLI 2.0.72+ ([download](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest))
- Visual Studio Code (optional) ([download](https://code.visualstudio.com/download))

## Setup

- Fork this repo and clone to your local machine
  - All instructions assume starting from the root of the repo

Build the container using Docker

- The unit tests run as part of the Docker build process. You can also run the unit tests manually.
- For instructions on building the container with ACR, please see the Helium [readme](https://github.com/retaildevcrews/helium)

```bash

# make sure you are in the root of the repo
# build the image
docker build -t helium-csharp -f Dockerfile .

# Tag and push the image to your Docker repo

```

Run the application locally

- The application requires Key Vault and Cosmos DB to be setup per the Helium [readme](https://github.com/retaildevcrews/helium)

```bash

# make sure you are in the root of the repo
cd src/app

# run in the background
# $He_Name is set to the name of your key vault
dotnet run $He_Name &

# test the application
# the application takes about 10 seconds to start
curl http://localhost:4120/healthz

# Stop the app
fg

# press ctl-c

```

Run the application as a local container instead

```bash

# make sure you are in the root of the repo
cd ../..

# build the dev image
# docker-dev builds a full .NET Core SDK image with Azure CLI installed in the container
# you may see red warnings in the build output, they are safe to ignore
# examples: "debconf: ..." or "dpkg-preconfigure: ..."
docker build -t helium-dev -f Dockerfile-Dev .

# run the container
# mount your ~/.azure directory to container root/.azure directory
# you can also run the container and run az login from a bash shell
docker run -d -p 4120:4120 --name helium-dev -v ~/.azure:/root/.azure helium-dev "dotnet" "run" "${He_Name}"

# check the logs
# re-run until the application started message appears
docker logs helium-dev

# curl the health check endpoint
curl http://localhost:4120/healthz


# Stop and remove the container

docker stop helium-dev
docker rm helium-dev

```

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit [Microsoft Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com).

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

Commit message:

Key Vault Parameters (#62)
* swagger changes
* turned on warnings as errors
* fxcop updates
* updated packages
* removed unused using
* moved fxcop suppression to global suppression file for clarity
* added /swagger.json for test compatibility and fidelity
* added query string validation
* added parameter validation
* updated unit tests
* changed PR to build and push beta tag
* updated per PR review
* removed topRated
* updated API doc
* moved CosmosConfig to separate class for clarity
* made methods lowercase for node
* added env var / cmd line for kvname and authtype
* added authType methods for getKeyVaultClient
* added usage()
* updated version
* updated readme
* updated change log

README.md, after:

# Build a Docker containerized ASP.NET Core web application using Managed Identity, Key Vault, and Cosmos DB that is designed to be deployed to Azure App Service or Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)
![Docker Image Build](https://github.com/retaildevcrews/helium-csharp/workflows/Docker%20Image%20Build/badge.svg)

This is an ASP.NET Core Web API reference application designed to "fork and code" with the following features:

- Securely build, deploy and run an Azure App Service (Web App for Containers) application
- Securely build, deploy and run an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) application
- Use Managed Identity to securely access resources
- Securely store secrets in Key Vault
- Securely build and deploy the Docker container from Azure Container Registry (ACR)
- Connect to and query Cosmos DB
- Automatically send telemetry and logs to Azure Monitor
- Instructions for setting up Key Vault, ACR, Azure Monitor and Cosmos DB are in the Helium [readme](https://github.com/retaildevcrews/helium)

## Prerequisites

- Docker CLI ([download](https://docs.docker.com/install/))
- .NET Core SDK 3.1 ([download](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download))
- Azure CLI 2.1.0 ([download](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest))
- Visual Studio Code (optional) ([download](https://code.visualstudio.com/download))

## Setup

- Fork this repo and clone to your local machine
  - All instructions assume starting from the root of the repo

Build the container using Docker

- The unit tests run as part of the Docker build process. You can also run the unit tests manually.
- For instructions on building the container with ACR, please see the Helium [readme](https://github.com/retaildevcrews/helium)

```bash

# make sure you are in the root of the repo
# build the image
docker build . -t helium-csharp

```

Run the application locally

- The application requires Key Vault and Cosmos DB to be setup per the Helium [readme](https://github.com/retaildevcrews/helium)
  - You can run the application locally by using Azure CLI cached credentials
    - You must run az login before this will work

```bash

# make sure you are in the root of the repo
cd src/app

# run in the background
# $He_Name is set to the name of your key vault
# this will use Azure CLI cached credentials
dotnet run -- --kvname $He_Name --authtype CLI &

# test the application
# the application takes about 10 seconds to start
curl http://localhost:4120/healthz

# Stop the app
fg

# press ctl-c

```

Run the application as a local container instead

```bash

# make sure you are in the root of the repo
cd ../..

# build the dev image
# docker-dev builds a full .NET Core SDK image with Azure CLI installed in the container
# you may see red warnings in the build output, they are safe to ignore
# examples: "debconf: ..." or "dpkg-preconfigure: ..."
docker build . -t helium-dev -f Dockerfile-Dev

# run the container
# mount your ~/.azure directory to container root/.azure directory
# you can also run the container and run az login from a bash shell
docker run -d -p 4120:4120 --name helium-dev -v ~/.azure:/root/.azure helium-dev dotnet run -- --authtype CLI --kvname $He_Name

# check the logs
# re-run until the application started message appears
docker logs helium-dev

# curl the health check endpoint
curl http://localhost:4120/healthz


# Stop and remove the container

docker stop helium-dev
docker rm helium-dev

```

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit [Microsoft Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com).

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
